[Docs] ELI5 Tutorial For Invocations (#3524)
invoke-ai/InvokeAI: docs/contributing/INVOCATIONS.md

| Type Hint | `Union[ImageField, None]`                            | The types for our field. Indicates that the image can either be an `ImageField` type or `None`     |
| Field     | `Field(description="The input image", default=None)` | The image variable is a field which needs a description and a default value that we set to `None`. |

Great. Now let us create our other inputs for `width` and `height`

```python
from typing import Literal, Union
from pydantic import Field

from .baseinvocation import BaseInvocation
from ..models.image import ImageField

class ResizeInvocation(BaseInvocation):
    '''Resizes an image'''
    type: Literal['resize'] = 'resize'

    # Inputs
    image: Union[ImageField, None] = Field(description="The input image", default=None)
    width: int = Field(default=512, ge=64, le=2048, description="Width of the new image")
    height: int = Field(default=512, ge=64, le=2048, description="Height of the new image")
```

As you might have noticed, we added two new parameters to the field type for

> `width` and `height` called `gt` and `le`. These basically stand for _greater

Reviewer: Says `gt` and `le` here, but in the code snippet above, height and width have `ge` instead of `gt`

Author: Ah. Thanks for spotting that. I'll fix it up.

    def invoke(self, context: InvocationContext) -> ImageOutput:
        # Load the image using InvokeAI's predefined Image Service.
        image = context.services.images.get_pil_image(self.image.image_origin, self.image.image_name)

        # Resizing the image
        # Because we used the above service, we already have a PIL image. So we can simply resize.
        resized_image = image.resize((self.width, self.height))

        # Preparing the image for output using InvokeAI's predefined Image Service.
        output_image = context.services.images.create(
            image=resized_image,
            image_origin=ResourceOrigin.INTERNAL,
            image_category=ImageCategory.GENERAL,
            node_id=self.id,
            session_id=context.graph_execution_state_id,
            is_intermediate=self.is_intermediate,
        )

        # Returning the Image
        return ImageOutput(
            image=ImageField(
                image_name=output_image.image_name,
                image_origin=output_image.image_origin,
            ),
            width=output_image.width,
            height=output_image.height,
        )
```

> **Note:** Do not be overwhelmed by the `ImageOutput` process. InvokeAI has a

Reviewer: Will be great one day to add a doc reference here that explains all the services available when writing invocations (image.create/images.get_pil_image/etc). For now, maybe we could add a note pointing to [invocation_services.py](https://github.com/invoke-ai/InvokeAI/blob/main/invokeai/app/services/invocation_services.py) as a starting point for available utilities while working on invocations?

Author: Agreed. We can maintain a doc with available services and some small snippets on how to use them. Once we have the model manager finished and merged in, we should have more details on how to frame that.

## Result

Once you make your Invocation correctly, the rest of the process is fully
automated for you.

When you launch InvokeAI, you can go to `http://localhost:9090/docs` and see
your new Invocation show up there with all the relevant info.

![resize invocation](../assets/contributing/resize_invocation.png)

When you launch the frontend UI, you can go to the Node Editor tab and find your
new Invocation ready to be used.

![resize node editor](../assets/contributing/resize_node_editor.png)

# Advanced

## Custom Input Fields

Now that you know how to create your own Invocations, let us dive into slightly
more advanced topics.

While creating your own Invocations, you might run into a scenario where the
existing input types in InvokeAI do not meet your requirements. In such cases,
you can create your own input types.

Let us create one as an example. Let us say we want to create a color input
field that represents a color code. But before we start on that here are some
general good practices to keep in mind.

**Good Practices**

- There is no naming convention for input fields but we highly recommend that
  you name it something appropriate like `ColorField`.

> - It is not mandatory but it is heavily recommended to add a relevant

Reviewer: Perhaps we should make this mandatory haha

Author: I was thinking about it too. The only mandatory thing right now is `Invocation` coz we use that in the UI to actually parse the name of the node but maybe it wont hurt to enforce this. We might not have any code related validators for it but because every node has to go through a review anyway, we could probably enforce it.

@psychedelicious Thoughts? Should we make devs use `Field` and `Output` to describe the respective types and fields?

  `docstring` to describe your input field.
- Keep your field in the same file as the Invocation that it is made for or in
  another file where it is relevant.

> All input types a class that derive from the `BaseModel` type from `pydantic`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All input types are classes that derive from the `BaseModel` type from `pydantic`.
```

So let's create one.

```python
from pydantic import BaseModel

class ColorField(BaseModel):
    '''A field that holds the rgba values of a color'''
    pass
```

Perfect. Now let us create our custom inputs for our field. This is exactly

> similar how you created input fields for your Invocation. All the same rules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the same as how you created input fields for your Invocation. All the same rules
```
